---
title: "Two Thousand Tens"
date: 2020-01-02
tags: ['blog']
lang: English
type: "text"
excerpt: "Decade in review" # TODO: Make excerpts work with Casper
author: Art Rosnovsky
draft: true
image: cover.jpeg
---

> Sure, the _decade_ doesn't start until 2021, but:
>
> - There was no "year zero", but there also was no "year one" or "year one hundred". So it's absolutely fine to count decades in a human-friendly way, by tens.
> - In any event, in my culture, index count starts at zero. By _my culture_, I mean programming, of course :)

Here's a quick look at the past decade and a look beyond 2020.

## 2010

### Radio

I started the decade as a radio personality. I was an editor of a few popular radio shows back Moscow. I also popped on air myself every now and again, and I mostly enjoyed it, and couldn't really imagine myself doing anything else.

However, by 2010 it was clear to me that my birth country is heading in a direction incompatible with my values. It's been pretty clear for a while, and ever since 2006 my family was low key looking at our immigration options. In 2010 I came up with a plan, and started working on implementation.

### Canada

In fall 2010 I visited London, Ontario, Canada. I toured local schools, exploring programs I could take. At the time, Canada offered a pretty generous immigration path through education, and that was the plan. I eternally grateful to my friends in London for making this trip possible. It kicked-off the decade of adventure and change.

## 2011

### First Immigration

On August 20, 2011 we left Russia with 3 suitcases and some carry-on, and 11 hours later landed in Toronto, Canada. Our wonderful friends drove us to London, our new home. Later that year I started Multimedia Design and Production program at Fanshawe. I've been doing some tech stuff all my life, but this time it was official: I had proper programming classes and projects.

These were exciting times of discovering a new country, new way of life, new industry. We fell in love with Canada, Southwestern Ontario, Toronto, and everything around. These were challenging times too: we had very limited resources, no family around, school was challenging, overall adaptation to the new reality wasn't always easy.

## 2012

On May 1, 2012 my wife won a Diversity Visa ("green card lottery"), which granted us permanent residency in America. We considered it for a few hours, and chose to go through with the process and move to the United States. In December we got our visas, and landed as permanent residents on December 30, 2012 via Buffalo, NY.

In 2012 I also joined a small software project, which introduced me to software development and allowed to sustain the family for a few years.

## 2013

### Second Immigration

We stayed in Canada until I finished college, and moved to Vancouver, WA in May 2013. Initially, we were considering Grand Rapids, MI, but after a quick trip to Portland, OR, it became an obvious choice. We packed our apartment into a UBox, hopped on a plane and landed in PDX a few hours later. We've been living in the Pacific Northwest ever since.

## 2014

We started 2014 in Las Vegas on our Big California Trip. We flew in a single-engine airplane over Hoover Dam. I was a student pilot, recording over 50 hours of flight time, including a few amazing solo flights over the Cascades. We traveled a lot, exploring Oregon, Washington, Pacific Coast, the mountains, and everything this incredible region has to offer.

## 2015

We bought a house and settled into our quite suburban life.

## 2016

I started working as a contractor at Intel. It was my first non-self-employment job in America.

## 2017

We sold a house.
Seattle
AT&T

## 2018

New Era

## 2019

Microsoft
Auth0

2020 and beyond
